EXene copyright notice, license and disclaimer.

            Copyright (c) 1993 by AT&T Bell Laboratories
                      All rights reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both the copyright notice and this permission notice and warranty
disclaimer appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of
AT&T Bell Laboratories or any AT&T entity not be used in advertising
or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
specific, written prior permission.

AT&T disclaims all warranties with regard to this software, including
all implied warranties of merchantability and fitness.  In no event
shall AT&T be liable for any special, indirect or consequential
damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or
profits, whether in an action of contract, negligence or other
tortious action, arising out of or in connection with the use or
performance of this software.


           Copyright (c) 1990,1991,1992 by John H. Reppy
                      All rights reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and
its  documentation  for  any  purpose  and  without fee is hereby
granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear  in  all
copies  and  that  both  the copyright notice and this permission
notice   and   warranty   disclaimer   appear    in    supporting
documentation,  and that the name of John H. Reppy not be used in
advertising  or  publicity  pertaining  to  distribution  of  the
software  without  specific,  written  prior permission.  John H.
Reppy makes no representations  about  the  suitability  of  this
software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express
or implied warranty.

JOHN H. REPPY  DISCLAIMS  ALL  WARRANTIES  WITH  REGARD  TO  THIS
SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL  JOHN  H. REPPY  BE  LIABLE  FOR  ANY
SPECIAL,   INDIRECT  OR  CONSEQUENTIAL  DAMAGES  OR  ANY  DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR  PROFITS,  WHETHER
IN  AN  ACTION  OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTUOUS ACTION,
ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE  OR  PERFORMANCE  OF
THIS SOFTWARE.
