File: sather/doc/license.txt
Author: Stephen M. Omohundro
Created: Wed May 22 13:55:15 1991
Copyright (C) International Computer Science Institute, 1991


                 SATHER LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

It is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this
license, but altering it is not allowed.

The following terms describe the limitations on copying, distributing,
using, or altering those Sather library classes which are protected by
this license.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of such Sather library
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you
conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy a valid copyright
notice of the form "Copyright (C) International Computer Science
Institute, 1991" with the appropriate year; keep intact the notices on
all files that refer to this License Agreement and the absence of any
warranty and the list of original authors of each class; and give any
other recipients of any protected Sather libraries a copy of this
License Agreement along with the program.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of Sather library source code or
any portion of it, and copy and distribute such modifications under
the terms of Paragraph 1 above, provided that you also cause the
modified files to carry prominent notices stating that you changed the
files and the date of any change. If program binaries are distributed
or sold which are based in part on modified classes, then such
modified classes must be made freely available in source code form.
No restriction is placed on any new classes which may be written and
used in conjunction with Sather library classes, though authors are
encouraged to make them also available under the terms of this
license.

3. You may use the Sather libraries in any program for any purposes
provided that you 

   a) Include in any documentation describing the program the notice:
   "This program is based in part on Sather libraries distributed free
   of charge by the International Computer Science Institute, 1947
   Center Street, Suite 600, Berkeley, CA 94706 and which may be
   obtained by anonymous ftp from icsi.berkeley.edu."

   b) Include in any documentation describing the program a list of
   names acknowledging the original authors of any Sather library
   classes used in the program.

   c) Acknowledge the use of Sather and Sather library classes in any
   description of the program including commercial advertising or
   articles in scientific journals. 

4. You may not copy, sublicense, distribute or transfer protected
Sather library classes except as expressly provided under this License
Agreement.  Any attempt otherwise to copy, sublicense, distribute or
transfer these classes is void and your rights to them under this
License agreement shall be automatically terminated.  However, parties
who have received computer software programs from you with this
License Agreement will not have their licenses terminated so long as
such parties remain in full compliance.

			   NO WARRANTY

BECAUSE THE SATHER LIBRARIES COVERED BY THIS LICENSE ARE LICENSED FREE
OF CHARGE, WE PROVIDE ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED
BY APPLICABLE STATE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING, THE
INTERNATIONAL COMPUTER SCIENCE INSTITUTE AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE
SATHER LIBRARIES "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS
WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE LIBRARY CLASSES PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE
COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW WILL THE INTERNATIONAL
COMPUTER SCIENCE INSTITUTE AND/OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND
REDISTRIBUTE THESE LIBRARIES AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR
DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY LOST PROFITS, LOST MONIES, OR OTHER SPECIAL,
INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARIES TO OPERATE WITH PROGRAMS NOT DISTRIBUTED BY
THE INTERNATIONAL COMPUTER SCIENCE INSTITUTE) THE PROGRAM, EVEN IF YOU
HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES, OR FOR ANY CLAIM
BY ANY OTHER PARTY.
