Changes in Version 0.44

1) Lots of minor bug fixes and improvements.

2) Slightly changed the look and handling of the user buttons. This
seems to have fixed the scrolling problems.....

3) There is a variable called history which controls the amount of
text kept in windows. The default value is 50 lines. Yes, I know it
ought to be on a per channel basis. It will be in the future when I
reorganise the way that per channel info is handled.

4) There is a new variable "ircnames" which is a list of ircnames you
like to use. Just like nicks and servers. Ircnames are now editable
but will not take effect until a server change.

5) Server changes work better.

6) ^V does *NOT* paste but inserts itself so that you can do inverse
video.

7) Typing return in the Channel entry no longer deletes the channel
name.

8) Time has been added to the User menus.

9) brb and back will not cause deiconified windows to pop-up.

10) A new variable operServer controls the automatic sending of irc
operator logins. This will only happen if the server you connect to is
the one set in operServer. This will change in the future and become
more configurable on a per server basis.

Changes in Version 0.43

1) Added LUSERS to Servers menu

2) Lots of bug fixes

3) Code is getting cleaner.

4) set autoIcon {#ch1 #ch2} will cause the channels to be iconified
when they start up. There seems to be a slight tk redraw problem here
that may need the use of tkwait, but tkwait breaks some people's
systems...

5) You can paste multiple lines into the entry buffer. ^v and Button 2
click paste.

6) set checkTime <number of milliseconds> will cause windows that are
in the autoIcon list and have been inactive for that length of time to
be iconified.  Inactive is defined as having had no text sent to them.
This is purely experimental and may not perform as you require. You
almost certainly need to combine it with the use of Pop Up. set
checkTime 0 switches this feature off and is the default.  There ought
to be a button on the mode menu to control this feature, but it is
10PM and I am on holiday for two weeks from tomorrow.......  When I
get back, OK?

7) adding ERROR to the toInfo list will cause som eErrors to go to the
info window.

8) I'm sure there is other stuff but I've forgotten.

-----

Changes in Version 0.42

1) Notices and messages should now show up correctly.

2) Hitting escape at the end of the server name in the Server entry
field will prompt you for a port number.

3) You can add port numbers in the servers list thus:

	set servers {sv1 {sv2 3456} sv3}

4) The toInfo variable gives you control over where some of the pop up
windows appear:

	set toInfo {CTCP}

will cause CTCP replies to go to the INFO window rather than as a Pop
Up. SIGNOFF will cause signoff messages to be sent only yo the info
window not to all relevant channels. WHO, WHOIS and WHOWAS are also
recognised.


5) MODE parsing should be correct.

6) Resizing of windows is in terms of characters.
