Using GIC
---------
Before starting GIC, designate a directory in which checked out
modules will be placed (eg. ~/work).  Change to that directory and run
GIC by typing (substitute the directory in which gic-start.tcl
resides):
	wish -f /usr/local/lib/tk/gic-start.tcl	

The GIC startup screen will appear listing all the available modules.
Open the module you wish to work on.  If the directory for that module
does not exist, it will be checked out, otherwise work will continue
on the previously checked out copy.  Checked out files are placed in a
subdirectory with the name of the module.

You are now at the main GIC screen.  You may perform all the common
CVS functions.  Feel free to edit the files or perform any CVS
functions (except checkout or release) outside of GIC, but be sure to
update the GIC status window.  While the best way to learn about GIC
is to try it out, below are a short description of all the available
options.

From the main GIC screen, two menues are available: the "Module" and
the "Item" menu.  The Module menu allows operations to be performed on
the entire module as well as quiting GIC with and without releasing
the module.  Specifically, the module can be commited (cvs commit) and
updated (cvs update), and the CVS modules file
($CVSROOT/CVSROOT/modules) can be checked out, editted, and checked
back in.  Finally, the module may be released, in which case any
changes that have not been commited will be lost, and GIC can be quit
without releasing the module with the Quit option.

From the Item menu, individual files can be affected.  The first
option is to add files.  When selected, a file selection box will
appear.  If a non-existant file is selected, then GIC will create it.
The directory specified is ignored by GIC; the file is assumed to be
in the same directory as the rest of the module.  The second option,
Remove, removes the file selected in the Files box.  The Edit option
edits the selected file using the editor named in the EDITOR
environment variable.  The fourth option, Commit, commits the selected
file to the repository, or all the files if no file is selected.
Finally, Show Log displays the changes made to the selected file and
Show Diff displays the difference between the checked out copy of the
file and the copy in the repository.


Advanced Use
------------
Users may optionally create a ~/.gicrc file.  A sample file along with
documentation of the options can be found in the dot-gicrc file.

- David Marwood
- marwood@cpsc.ucalgary.ca
